The Joe Rogan experience.
I watched, uh,
Restrepo last night because of what's going on in Afghanistan. Do you,
do you know, EPPO Sebastian Young's, uh, film on Afghanistan. Yeah.
Just sort of, um, just put it in perspective,
like what's going on over there now. And, um, the it's, you know,
I mean, books are amazing for putting things into perspective,
but there's something about a documentary,
especially a boots on the ground documentary by a journalist like Sebastian
younger and in Afghanistan while Afghanistan is falling to the
Taliban. So it feels so it's so intense when you're watching it. And you see,
you know, guys in the beginning of the film that wind up dying and it's, uh,
first, first of all, I, I forgot, like, I think you,
you have a sense of what they mean when they talk about these mountainous
areas, this in mountainous terrain, that's impossible, really of control,
cuz it's very difficult to traverse, very difficult to get around.
I don't think you really understand it until you watch that film until you
really, you see the mountains and you look, oh God,
like how is anybody ever gonna control this area? Like,
no wonder why the Soviets failed. No wonder why we failed. No wonder why,
you know, the people that live there, they,
they just they're living in an incredibly
difficult environment in terms of like,
just getting around mm-hmm <affirmative> yeah. I.
Remember some statistics about like 99% of people in Afghanistan.
Afghanistan. I sound like Brian Kaen I honest time <laugh>
uh, uh, I ran Iran. Yeah. I never know how to say it. Yeah. Uh,
I remember like 99% of them didn't know nine 11 happened.
So like they're completely disconnected from the world. Even.
That's so crazy that.
Like even things that seem relevant.
To did you watch the videos to day of people trying to climb a board planes and
falling to their deaths? The planes are taken off.
These guys are hanging onto the landing gear and as the landing gear pulls up,
they're falling to their death trying.
To save themselves.
Yes. Trying to leave with the Americans. It's
crazy. Just the chaos at the airport is CR you haven't seen any of this.
Haven't.
Seen, I, I actually have not been paying attention.
What? Jamie show him some of the, the videos cuz it's it's heartbreaking.
There's one. This is like, yeah,
these are people just literally climbing all over these ladders,
doing whatever they can trying to force himself onto these planes. And,
but the really one is, look, look, these guys hang,
hanging on the landing gear, watch this like falling through his death.
It's. Wow. Yeah. And look at this.
I mean crazy,
all these guys trying to stop the plane so that they can get on board.
I mean, this is just a tremendous failure.
It's so heartbreaking. Yeah.
But what do you do?
What could be done differently? Right? That's the real question like could have,
uh <affirmative> could they have designed, uh,
a better withdrawal plan that scaled over time
where they gave, uh, uh,
particularly the people that helped the American military over there
that they're very vulnerable right now. They're they're in a lot of trouble.
Could they have protected them better? Could they have something?
Could they have designed a plan?
That's what most people who are criticizing this believe the people that
actually understand what's going on over there.
They think this idea of pulling out immediately.
Yeah. But half the world is living under authoritarian regimes.
So the question is how do you help those people? How do you help? You had a,
a nice, sophisticated,
deep historical conversation with Andrew Schultz about North Korea. But are.
You being sarcastic? Yeah. That's a little.
Bit of sarcasm there. <laugh> I, I love him. He's hilarious. I'm just joking.
He is.
Hilarious. But he was uh <laugh> he was going hard to paint. Yeah. A little bit.
But he's but like how do you help? He's having fun. Well, the, the, the CRI the,
the one sort of, of, uh, sophisticated criticism, there was, well,
what the hell do you do about it?
Right? What do you do about North Korea? Well, what.
And there's, there's a lot of places like that.
North Korea is probably the worst or one of the worst,
but there's a lot of places where the leader,
the government is abusing its people. Do you do about it? The, uh,
the whole cryptocurrency, Bitcoin people say,
maybe you can change the money. You can give people power by,
uh, like one of the ways government controls its people is the monetary system.
So you can like swap out, try to give people power through the money.
That's one way that's interesting. Uh,
the obvious old school way is military, uh, and,
or also maybe economic pressures, but then it becomes,
it becomes difficult cuz you take on that project and then you get the thing
that you get in Afghanistan. And you know,
it's a project that takes 10 years.
It takes 20 years and then ultimately it's not successful.
So what do you do? Afghanistan situation is so crazy because, uh, you know,
Biden was on television just a little while ago,
talking about how there's 300,000 armed
Afghanistan, soldiers that were trained by the United States.
And there's only 75,000 Taliban. There's no way that they're gonna fall,
but they never fought. They just gave up like instantly.
Yeah. Right.
You know, it's like the,
the whole situation is very confusing to someone who doesn't understand it.
If you're, if you're a guy who fought over there too,
it's gotta be insanely frustrating. People, spill blood over there.
People lost limbs over there.
And then they're seeing how quickly we just pulled out and then abandoned ship.
Like what, what was, what was that for?
Well, we, we got into that war under false pretenses.
We stayed without much transparency about why we're staying how many 20 years.
Yeah. Without, without a clear plan for the future.
And then we pulled out without a clear, transparent plan. Yeah. What,
but I don't know what lesson to draw from that,
except that we should never gone in, in the first place. That's,
that's the only sort of solid set of arguments you can have because,
and like why that place, you know,
it's the people that argue was all about oil and all those kinds of,
of things and minerals.
And, and minerals and all sorts of natural resources. Right. And natural gas,
like Afghanistan is a, it's a rich suppository of lithium,
I believe too. Right?
Yeah. Natural. But then what, what about Iraq?
Like what does that have to do with anything? And so you, you start,
you start questioning the whole operation,
the whole process of making decisions about foreign policy in the military
conflicts. Uh, you know,
what lesson do you draw from that when there's places like North Korea,
when there's many people in, in Africa suffering,
there's many regimes that are abusing its people there mm-hmm <affirmative>
then, then there's people that criticize Russia, uh, for,
for certain things in terms of, from an authoritarian regime perspective.
And then the big one is China. And then what do you do about that? And then I,
I mean, I do find the libertarian argument here.
The most sophisticated convincing is we should stay out
of other people's business until we have a really clear, good plan. And,
um, the, you know, the majority of Americans, uh,
given the transparent communication of what is going on and what we're going to
do, majority of Americans, uh, are behind this plan.
Otherwise stay out of it unless you have, you know, the, the,
you know, when you have, uh,
something like a Nazi Germany where there's obvious atrocities,
uh, happening, where there's an obvious war on the horizon,
then that's different. But.
Everything else, well, if that's the case,
then why aren't we invading North Korea?
If why park and all these different people that have escaped from North Korea
are telling the truth. That there's a Holocaust going on there right now.
I mean, they're, they're literally starving their people.
They're putting their people in concentration camps.
They're having children born in concentration camps for the crimes,
their grandparents and their children will also be born these camps in
these prison camps. Um, they're starving their people. They execute them for,
you know, almost no reason they do whatever they want to them.
They have full and total complete control over them.
Well, the dark answer and the reason is because
there's no way to do anything about North Korea without also doing something
about China. Yeah. And that's,
that's why we turn a blind eye to North Korea because,
um, I mean that's a deeply, I mean,
a war with North Korea or invasion of North Korea is an invasion of China.
Watch the.
Entire episode for free only on Spotify.